the greatest trick the devil ever pulled
was convincing the world he didn't exist
welcome back to popcorn time movie
digest today i will show you a mystery
thriller film from 1995
titled the usual suspects spoilers alert
watch out and take care
the film started with the interrogation
of roger verbal ken a small time con man
who is one of only two survivors of a
massacre and fire on a ship docked at
the port of los
angeles through flashback and narration
kane tells an interrogator a convoluted
story of events that led him and his
criminal companions to the boat
and of a mysterious crime lord known as
kaiser soze who controlled them
on the deck of a boat in san pedro
california a mysterious figure talks
with an injured man called keaton
the two talk briefly then kaiser seems
to shoot keaton before setting the boat
on fire
the next day fbi agent jack baer and u.s
customs special agent dave quijan
arrived in san pedro separately to
investigate what happened on the boat
the police recovered 27 bodies and only
two survivors
arkish a hungarian mobster hospitalized
with severe burns
and roger verbal kit a con artist with
cerebral palsy
bear interrogates the hungarian who
claims that kaiser soze
a turkish criminal mastermind with a
nearly mythical reputation
was in the harbour killing many men the
hungarian begins to describe soze while
a translator interprets and a police
sketch artist draws a rendering of
jose's face
agent dave kuyan flies to los angeles
from new york city to interrogate verbal
the men are left alone in a borrowed
office belonging to lapd
police sergeant jeffrey bean kuyan puts
his hand on the transcript of verbal's
confession
rabine walks in with a cup of coffee
verbal takes it with his good hand and
sips it with relish
granted complete immunity verbal has no
restraints and no reason to help them
but he likes to talk and begins to fill
in the gaps that he left in his original
statement
verbal started by telling agent kuyan
about a barbershop quartet in skokie
illinois when suddenly agent kuyan grabs
verbal shirt and yanks him half out of
his seat
as kuyan interrogates him we see verbal
story unfold that started six weeks
earlier in new york city
when an armored truck containing spare
gun parts is hijacked in queens
the driver of the stolen truck was
grabbed from behind and never saw the
person or persons who accosted him but
the unknown hijacker spoke to him
subsequently the nypd round up five
different criminals
dean keaton is a corrupt former police
officer who has given up his life of
crime
and is arrested while eating dinner at a
fancy restaurant michael mcmanus
is a crack shot with a temper and a wild
streak arrested in the middle of the
night in his bed
fred fenster is mcmanus hispanic partner
who speaks in mangled english
and is nabbed on a street corner todd
hockney is a car mechanic and part-time
hijacker who forms an instant rivalry
with mcmanus
and is picked up while working on a car
in his garage and verbal himself
the five men are brought together for a
lineup and are told to say the phrase
give me the keys uffing coke sucker they
all managed to butcher the phrase
later while sitting in a holding cell
and believing they were being unfairly
harassed by the police
mcmanus convinces the others to join
forces to commit a robbery targeting new
york's finest taxi service
a group of corrupt nypd police officers
who escort smugglers to their
destinations around the city
the group is eventually released after
the lineup but they decide to get their
revenge against the nypd
keaton stops at the top of the front
steps of the police station and lights a
cigarette
edie comes out behind him fuming mad he
looks across the street and sees fenster
and mcmanus talking by a newsstand
keaton looks to his right and sees
hockney trying to hail a cab
just then verbal bumps into him on his
way out the door
he excuses himself and hobbles down the
steps led by keaton
they robbed a jewel smuggler being
escorted by corrupt cops
netting millions and emeralds and
getting over 50 cops arrested
with their loot they fly to california
to sell the jewels to mcmanus's fence
redfoot redfoot talks them into another
job
robbing a purported jewel smuggler named
sol base he takes the jewel and they
keep the cash
sounds simple but this time they end up
killing the guy they're robbing along
with his two guards
and apparently they were hired to steal
drugs not jewels
an angry confrontation between the
thieves and redfoot reveals that the job
came from a lawyer named kobayashi
outside rabin's office bear tells agent
kuyan that they recovered 91 million but
there was no dope
agent kuyan asked what was the money for
but bear didn't know
bear asked if the [ __ ] mentioned
kaiser soze confused about what bear
said
agent kuyan bursts open the door and
asked verbal who is kaiser soze
verbal looks up in shock he drops his
cigarette and trembles at the mere
mention of the name
then verbal continues his story the five
criminals meet kobayashi
who says he arranged for their arrests
in new york and that his employer
kaiser soze a mysterious turkish crime
lord
from whom each of the men has
unwittingly stolen has ordered them to
raid a shipman by argentinian drug
dealers and destroy 91 million dollars
worth of cocaine being sold on board
their reward will be the cash brought
for the exchange as well as for settling
their debt to soze
kobayashi forces them to go along with a
plan to steal drugs for kaiser soze
threatening to kill their family members
if they don't kobayashi leaves a
briefcase containing all
information about them they accept the
deal because that's just the kind of
deal you have to accept
verbal kent then tells agent kuyano
legend about kaiser soze as he heard it
kaiser soze was a small time drug runner
he is supposed to be turkish
some say his father was german nobody
believed he was real
nobody ever saw him or knew anybody that
ever worked directly for him but to hear
kobayashi tell it
anybody could have worked for soze that
was his power
the greatest trick the devil ever pulled
was convincing the world he didn't exist
verbal tells the story of soze from his
days in turkey
soze family is being harassed by a rival
hungarian gang in turkey
they realized that to be in power you
didn't need guns or money or even
numbers
you just needed the will to do what the
other guy wouldn't after a while
they come to power and then they come
after jose they come to his home looking
for his business
they find his wife and kids in the house
and decide to wait for jose
he comes home to his wife raped and his
children screaming
the hungarians knew soze was tough so
they let him know they meant business
jose looks over the faces of his family
then he showed these man of well what
will really was
jose pulls out a pistol and shoots the
two men with guns
he kills his wife and children one by
one in front of the hungarian
he tells him he would rather see his
family dead than live another day after
this
he lets the last hungarian go and he
goes running
so save and massacre the mobsters and
their families before disappearing
and from then on conducted business only
indirectly through underlings who are
mostly unfamiliar with their true
employer
so say thus became a fearsome urban myth
a spook story that criminals tell their
kids at night
verbal kent continues to tell his
version of what happened then
his flashback resumes revealing fensters
is tracked and killed by kobayashi when
he was trying to run away
the remaining four thieves kidnapped
kobayashi believing jose to be a cover
for his activities and tending to kill
him but kobayashi threatened to kill
their loved ones
kobayashi reveals that lawyer edie
finneran keaton's girlfriend
is in his office on the night of the
cocaine deal keaton tells verbal to stay
back and to take the money to edie if
the plan goes awry
verbal reluctantly agrees to do so he
watches the boat from a distance in
hiding
men attacked the ship during the night
killing several argentinian
and hungarian gangsters hockney is
killed by an unseen assailant as keaton
and mcmanus discover separately that
there is no coke on the boat
meanwhile the remaining hungarians are
being picked off by the unseen killer
including the closely guarded hispanic
passenger
suddenly mcmanus showed up feeling dizzy
revealing a knife at the back of his
neck
keaton turns away to leave when someone
shot in the back a figure in a dark coat
appears
presumably kaiser soze and lights a
cigarette with a gold lighter
he appears to speak briefly with keaton
before shooting him
he then set the ship ablaze and leaves
with verbal story finished
kuyan deduces that the mysterious kaiser
soze is really keaton
as the prisoner killed on the ship was
arturo marquez a smuggler who escaped
prosecution by claiming he could
identify soze
the boat hijacking was not about cocaine
but rather to ensure that arturo marquez
who could positively identify jose is
killed marquez was being represented by
a lawyer named eddie finneran
keaton's girlfriend and who has also
been recently murdered
cou on deduces that the argentinians
took marquez to sell him to jose's
hungarian rivals
keaton used the guys to kill the rat who
could identify him as soze
verbal breaks down crying and admits
that the whole affair
from the beginning was keaton's idea he
but refuses to testify in court
his bail having been posted verbal
departs with his immunity
verbal retrieves his personal belongings
from the property officer which contains
cigarettes
a golden lighter and a watch moments
later
kuyan looks at the bulletin board in the
office he borrowed for the interrogation
and realizes every single thing verbal
told him was a lie
kuyan realizes that verbal fabricated
his entire story by piecing together
details from random items in rabine's
cluttered office
redfoot is the name on a wanted poster
for example and kobayashi is written on
the bottom of a coffee cup that verbal
handled earlier
kuyan who had belittled verbal and
mocked his intelligence at every
opportunity
has been played as kuyan pursues verbal
a fax arrives with the police artist's
impression of kaiser soze's face which
resembles verbal ken
meanwhile we see verbal walking down the
street gradually losing his limp and
flexing his supposedly palsy hand
he steps into a waiting car driven by mr
kobayashi
departing just as kuyan comes outside
make sure to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you can watch more
videos like this
thanks for watching